Add Meta chatbot inaccuracies example (#71)
badnessdotai/catalog: catalog/meta-chatbot-inaccuracies.md

---

> title: Meta's AI bot trained on scientific info put out biased and inaccurate articles

Reviewer: I feel like this could be more direct?

```suggestion
title: Meta's AI chatbot trained on scientific information produced racist and inaccurate articles
```

companies: ["Meta"]
categories: ["Inaccuracies", "Harmful Bias", "Misrepresentation"]
demonstrative: false
modalities: ["Chatbot"]
date: 2022-11-22

> models: []

Reviewer: There is a model here, no?

```suggestion
models: ["Galactica"]
```

Author: I initially was under the impression that Galactica is the name of the chatbot and the underlying model is something else (just like Bard is the name of Google's chatbot and the underlying model is LaMDA). But quick google search confirmed that Galactica is indeed the underlying model as well. Good catch.

sources:
  - "https://gizmodo.com/meta-ai-bot-galactica-1849813665"
---

> Meta's AI bot Galactica claimed Black people "don’t have a language of their own" and that Stanford researchers are building "gaydar" software to find gay people on Facebook. In addition, the bot incorrectly cited scientists, potentially hurting their reputations.

Reviewer: Think we could make the link stronger (accept only if it accords with your understanding of the facts though):

```suggestion
Meta's AI bot Galactica claimed Black people "don’t have a language of their own" and that Stanford researchers are building "gaydar" software to find gay people on Facebook. In addition, the bot substantiated its problematic claims with incorrect citations real scientists, potentially damaging those scientists' reputations.
```
